1. What is the full form of MVC?
---- Model View Controller.


2. What do you understand by Model View Control?
3. Explain Model, View and Controller in brief
----A model can be defined as the data that will be used by the program. Commonly used examples of models 
    in MVC are the database,  a simple object holding data (such as any multimedia file or the character of a game),
    a file, etc.

    A view is a way of displaying objects (user interfaces) within an application. This is the particular vertical 
    through which end users will communicate.

    A controller is the third vertical which is responsible for updating both models and views. It accepts input from 
    users as well as performs the equivalent update. In other words, it is the controller which is responsible for 
    responding to user actions.

4. What are the different return types used by the controller action method in MVC?
----View Result
    JSON Result
    Content Result
    Redirect Result
    JavaScript Result

5. Name the assembly in which the MVC framework is typically defined.
----In the System.Web.Mvc, the MVC framework is defined.

6. Explain the MVC Application life cycle.

7. What are the various steps to create the request object?
----To create a request object, we have 4 steps
         Step 1: Fill the route
         Step 2: Fetch the route
         Step 3: Create a request context
         Step 4: Create a controller instance

8. Explain some benefits of using MVC?
----Support of multiple views
    Faster development process
    SEO-friendly development
    More Control
    Lightweight

9. Explain in brief the role of different MVC components?
----Presentation
    Control
    Abstraction

10. How will you maintain the sessions in MVC?
----view data
    temp data 
    view bag

11. Which are adding routes in a webform application & an MVC application?
----1) MapPageRoute()---> for webform application
    2) MapRoute()----> for MVC application

12. 3 logical layers of MVC?
----Model logic which acts as a business layer
    View logic which acts as a display layer
    Controller logic acts as input control

13. What is the use of ActionFilters in MVC?
----ActionFilters are used for executing the logic while MVC action is executed.

14. What are the 3 important segments for routing?
----ControllerName
    ActionMethodName
    Parameter

15.  How is the routing carried out in MVC?
----- first parameter: first determines the name of the route
      second parameter: determines which URL matches
      third parameter:  responsible for providing default values for its placeholders.

16. How will you navigate from one view to another view in MVC? 
----- By ActionLink method 

17. Explain the 3 concepts in one line; Temp data, View, and Viewbag?
-----Temp data: This is used for maintaining the data when there is a shift of work from one controller to another controller.
     View data: This is used for maintaining the data when we will shift from a controller to a view within an application.
     View Bag: This acts as a view data’s dynamic wrapper.

18. Difference between ActionResult and ViewResult?

                         ActionResult                                         ViewResult
    1. It is effective when we diriving different views dynamically      1. Its not effective
    2. It is Derived from Abstract class                                 2. It is Derived from Action result class
    3. It has Derived class(Json result class,View result class)         3. Not have its own Derived class

19. What is TempData in MVC?
----Used to transfer the data from one controller to anther controller.

20. Define Output Caching in MVC?
----In controller method from this,If the data used earlier does not 
    get generated each time while invoking the same controller method.

21. Make a differentiation between View and Partial View?

                            View                                                   Partial View
                  1. It is not a lightweight                                  1. It is  lightweighted 
                  2. It has its own layout page                               2. It dont have own layout page
                  3. It has markup tags HTML                                  3. It dont have markup tags

22.  Define the concept of Filters in MVC?
----Filters: which implements some logic to execute the action method.

  1. Action filter 
  2. Exception filter 
  3. Authorization filter 
  4. Result filter 

23. Define Scaffolding in MVC?
----It is  ASP.NET’s code-generation framework used in web applications.

24. When multiple filters are used in MVC, how is the ordering of execution of the filters done?
----First, the authorization filters--->Action filters--->response filters--->exception filters

25. Define Default Route in MVC?
----It is a generic route that makes the URL into 3 segments URL: “{controller} / {action} / {id}”

26. What is GET and POST Action types?
----1.GET Action Type: It is implemented for requesting the data from a particular resource.
    2.POST Action Type: It is implemented for submitting the data that handled to a certain resource.

 


















