1. What is Database?
----A database is an organized collection of data, stored and retrieved digitally from a remote or local computer system.

2. What is DBMS? and its types?
----DBMS stands for Database Management System. DBMS is a system software responsible for the creation, retrieval, updation 
    and management of the database
 Types : 
        1. Relational Database Management System
        2. Non-Relational Database Management System

3. What is RDBMS? How is it different from DBMS?
--- RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System.
    RDBMS: stores data in the form of a collection of tables.
    DBMS : is a system software responsible for the creation, retrieval, updation and management of the database.

4. What is SQL?
----SQL stands for Structured Query Language. It is the standard language for relational database management systems.
    It is useful in handling data.

5. What is the difference between SQL and MySQL?
--- SQL  : Used  for retrieving and manipulating structured databases.
--- MySQL : It  is used to manage SQL databases.

6. What are Tables and Fields?
---Table: A table is an organized collection of data stored in the form of rows and columns.
   Fields:  The columns in a table are called fields.

7. What is a Primary Key? 
----The PRIMARY KEY  uniquely identifies data of each row in a table and it is NOT allow NULL.

8.  What is a Foreign Key?
----It is set of attribute that reference to primary key of same table or anther table. it allows NULL.

9.  What is a Join? List its different types.
----Join: Is used to combine rows from two or more tables.
----Types: 
          (INNER)JOIN: Returns records that have matching values in both tables
          (OUTER)LEFT JOIN: Retrive all records from the left table, and the matched records from the right table
          (OUTER)RIGHT JOIN: Retrive  all records from the right table, and the matched records from the left table
          (OUTER)FULL JOIN: Retrive  all records when there is a match in either left or right table.

10. What is a Self-Join?
----A self JOIN  joined to itself based on some relation between its own columns.

11.  What is an Index? Explain its different types.
---- A Index is the method of incresing the speed of data retrieval from the table.
Types : Unique Index
        Non-Unique Index
        Clustered Index 
        Non-Clustered Index

12. What is a Query?
----A query is a request for data or information from a database table 

13. What are UNION, MINUS and INTERSECT commands?
     UNION : It is used to combine the two selected queries.
     MINUS : Maching the record of 1st and 2nd query and removes the duplicants
     INTERSECT : It returns the row which are common in both Queries

14. What are Entities and Relationships?
----Entity: An entity can be a real-world object.
----Relationships: Relations or links between entities. 

15. List the different types of relationships in SQL.
----One-to-one : The relationship between two tables where one table record associated with one table only.
    One-to-many : Used relationship where a record in a table is associated with multiple records(city and custermers in city)
    Many-to-many : 
    Self Referencing Relationships : 

16. What is a View?
----A view is a virtual table contains rows and columns, just like a real table.

17. What are the TRUNCATE, DELETE and DROP statements?
----TRUNCATE : TRUNCATE command is used to delete all the rows from the table and free the space containing the table.
    DELETE : DELETE statement is used to delete specific rows from a table.
    DROP : DROP command is used to remove an object from the database. 

18. What is the difference between DROP and TRUNCATE statements?
----DROP here hole structure of table gets drop but in TRUNCATE only delete all the rows from the table not strucutre.

19. What is the difference between DELETE and TRUNCATE statements?
----DELETE: It is a DML command and used to delete specific row from the table but in TRUNCATE: It is a DDL command and all the rows from the teble gets delete.

20. What are Aggregate and Scalar functions?
---Aggregate : Performes operation and returns single scalar value.
   Scalar functions :A scalar function returns a single value based on the input value.

21. What are the different subsets of SQL?
--- 1. Data Definition Language (DDL) – It allows you to perform various operations on the database such as CREATE, ALTER, and DELETE objects.
    2. Data Manipulation Language(DML) – It allows you to access and manipulate data. It helps you to INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE and retrieve data from the database.
    3. Data Control Language(DCL) – It allows you to control access to the database. Example – Grant, Revoke access permissions.

22.  What is the difference between CHAR and VARCHAR datatype in SQL?
---Both CHAR and VARCHAR are used for characters datatype but CHAR has fixed lenght for string and VARCHAR has variable length for string.

23. What do you mean by data integrity? 
----Data Integrity defines the accuracy and consistency of the data stored in a database.

24. What is the difference between Clustered and Non-clustered index in SQL?

                                          clustered                                              Non-clustered 
                          1. Retrieval of data speed is fast                                       1. Slow
                          2. It alters the way records of database                                 2. It does not alter the way records of database
                          3. One table can only have one clustered index                           3. One table can have many non-clustered index

25. . What do you mean by Normalization and Denormalization?
--- 1. Normalization: Normalization is used to remove redundant data from the database.
    2. Denormalization: Denormalization is used to combine multiple table data into one.

26. How can you fetch common records from two tables?
----You can fetch common records from two tables using INTERSECT.

27. What is an ALIAS command?
---- ALIAS is the name that can be given to any table or a column.This ALIAS name is used to identify the particular table or a column.

28. What is a Stored Procedure?
----A Stored Procedure is a function which consists of many SQL statements to access the database system.

29. What are the advantages and disadvantages of Stored Procedure?
.... Advantages: 1. Store and call the data for several times whenever it is required
                 2. It is faster execution.
     Disadvantages: 1. It is executed only in the database and required more memory.

30. What are Local and Global variables?
----Local variables:  Variables can access only inside the function  where it is defined.
    Global variables: Variables can accessed throughout the program.
     

31. Difference between Function and Storeprocedure?
  
                                   Function                                                 Storeprocedure
                         1. Only return One value                                      1. Retuen table  many times
                         2. its not support Exception handling                         2. It supports
                         3. function can call storeprocedure                           3. but storeprocedure not call function
                        
32. What is the SQL Group by and Having Clause?.
----1. Group by:  It is used to group rows that have the same values.
    2. Having: It is used to take specific data from group by data.


















